# EXPLORING-THE-SYNERGY-OF-DEEP-LEARNING-AND-CLASSICAL-MODELS-FOR-BRAIN-TUMOR-RECOGNITION
Brain tumors are a huge problem nowadays. To date, no medicine has been developed that can completely cure this disease. There are different stages of this disease, which ultimately lead to the death of the person.In the case of brain tumors, especially, unnecessary changes are seen in various cells, which is very harmful. This disease starts in a certain place and spreads slowly throughout the body. Keeping these things in mind, if the disease is caught early, its spread can be prevented in many ways. Now, to detect the disease, first doctors give different medicines, then they send for tests until the disease spreads a lot in the body. After doing all kinds of tests and then taking those reports to the doctor to see, which takes a lot of time, keeping that in mind, it will be very easy if an option is available that, by uploading MRI images, tumors can be identified. No matter what type of tumor it is, everyone has different effects. It saves a lot of time; the disease can be detected before it spreads and treated. So, different classification models have been implemented to select the best model. The accuracies are 79%, 86%, 81%, 68%, 49%, and 98.73 for Logistic Regression, Random Forest, SVM, KNN, Naïve Bayes, and CNN, respectively. So, a CNN model has been selected, a GUI has been developed, and MRI images can be easily uploaded to check if there is a tumor and, if so, what type it is.
